foreign
[Music]
accomplishment where we explore how
deepening connection with ourselves and
others leads to creating the life we
want with enjoyment and ease
I'm Brett Kistler here today with my
co-host Joe Hudson
Hey Joe how you doing
I'm good man how are you yeah doing well
you know I've been thinking that you
know on the podcast a number of times I
think I've mentioned how we first met
which was that you had been doing a talk
in San Francisco called how to make good
business decisions and
yeah that was something that really
caught my eye I had ended up moving to
the Bay Area from kind of my life
overseas doing Air Sports and base
jumping and Wing suiting and I was on my
own personal mission of how to make
better decisions because there'd been a
lot of cost and consequence with not
making great decisions in our community
and I really wanted that to be that was
a study that I was really deeply in at
the time driving me down rabbit holes
and Neuroscience and
Consciousness in general
yeah and so I just realized we've never
actually done an episode on how to make
decisions
yeah all right well
that tickles me to no end
that's actually something I was thinking
about when you set out about decision
making what made me crack up at the
beginning was this this idea of like oh
we really haven't done this and it's
such a integral part of the work so yeah
I look forward to let's do it let's talk
about decision making it's also one of
the Practical things that people desire
you know we talk a lot about how to feel
your feelings and people are like okay
great what's the point
yeah okay yeah good then we should tie
those two things in together let's do
that yeah so as we've we've talked about
the thing many times on the podcast
about how
the emotional Center is the
decision-making part of our brain that
if we remove it it'll take us a half an
hour to decide what color pen you know
or whatever it is like you might you'll
maintain your intelligence but you won't
be able to make any decisions
so that's the that's the quintessential
link the quintessential link is that we
make emotional decisions we do not make
intellectual decisions what we're doing
is we're using the intellect to help us
try to understand how we will feel
at the end of the decision
so we use a SWOT analysis to
it's not really like what's the best
result it's what how will we feel at the
end of it and I think I've said this on
the podcast too before which is
like if you took your SWOT analysis and
some Authority that you completely
trusted looked at you and said you know
if you just choose this you'll be
happier or if you just choose this
you'll have a more satisfied life the
SWOT analysis just goes out the window
and so yeah and for for listeners who
might not know what a SWOT analysis is
it's a term used in like business that
is strengths weaknesses opportunities
threats yeah or like if you've written a
pro and con list to decide what you know
whether you're going to marry the person
or whether you're gonna
you know take the job whatever yeah
Darwin had a very very famous one of
those on how whether he should marry the
person or not marry the person wait tell
me this story to say it again yeah I
guess I guess uh the Charles Darwin
famously did that he did like a very
intellectual bullet point pros and cons
list about whether or not to marry his
wife right right yeah right and and if
somebody would have said to Charles like
hey Charles man guarantee you're gonna
have a happier better life if you marry
her than if you don't it's just like all
that whole analysis just throws goes out
the window
and so that's that's the the other clue
that what we're really doing is we're
just using the intellect to try to
figure out how we'll feel best and in
that there's an assumption like I'll
feel better if my wife is supportive
I'll feel better if the job makes me
money I will feel better
if I am successful I will feel better
and so
so not only are we trying to figure out
what's going to make us feel the best or
the way that we think we want to feel
but in that is a whole bunch of
assumptions that are often
full of errors
and so
so the intellect can also lead us into
the wrong place whereas the emotional
experiences is a great way if you're
really aware of your emotions
and you understand how they move
then decision making becomes something
like a completely different thing than
to think that you're making intellectual
decisions when you're not
ever making yeah yeah yeah something
tying back to another thing that you've
said I don't know if it's on this
podcast but you told me once that I
really like this which was that the the
body lies as much as the mind yes or you
could say even the emotions do yeah and
so this isn't necessarily to say that
our emotions are correct and our mind is
wrong it's more just to say that we make
decisions based on the emotions that we
anticipate we're going to feel based on
the outcomes yeah so that knowledge
helps us
just helps us be more aware of the full
stack of what we're making decisions
from not necessarily to point to any
particular part of our system as being
more trustworthy than another part
correct yes is that accurate yeah I
would I would say there's a couple
things in that the first one is Clarity
and decision making comes from being
willing and able and welcoming all
emotional experiences so what we know
about Neuroscience is that we're more
likely to make a decision or act as a
way to avoid something bad that do feel
something good
so a lot of the times what that means is
that our decision making the intellect
is weighing the avoidance of something
bad over the potential of feeling
something good
and so
if you're happy to feel any emotion good
or bad if you welcome any of these
emotions your decision making becomes
very clear if you can be in love with
feeling fear if you can be in love with
feeling anger if you can be in love with
feeling excitement or exalted or
exuberant
which everybody's like of course I can
but notice that you might that might not
be the case so if you can feel all those
things happily and you look forward to
them then your decision making gets a
lot more clear
so that that's part of it the second
part of it is that yes your emotional
system is not always clear in itself in
the fact that you might be say feeling
something because of a trauma that isn't
actually happening in this moment or
your mind might be telling you a certain
emotion means something that it doesn't
mean
right and then a great example of this
is uh anxiety and excitement
that oftentimes I mean there's this
great phrase that excitement is just
fear with breath or anxiety is
excitement without the breath
basically that if you can breathe into a
feeling of anxiety or fear that it can
become excitement very very quickly and
and so that like
what's the what's the right emotional
experience there is it just is it that
you're not breathing is it that you're
actually feeling excitement or fear so
there can be a lot of confusion around
that as well and so yes it's not like
listen to your body and you'll make all
these great decisions it's literally
understanding how your emotions work how
your body works how your intellect works
in the decision-making process is uh is
the beginning of Learning to make great
decisions
yeah and it sounds like that also
includes being aware of what our fears
really are you know an example and
jumping would be you might have the
healthy fear that it points to the
physical risk you're about to take yeah
and you might also be feeling the fear
of letting somebody down or the fear of
not you know some kind of threat to your
identity and you might be registering
that identity threat as a physical
threat and feel physical the physical
response of fear yes and not realize
that you're weighting your decision
towards something that is actually
protecting an identity rather than
protecting your life and that's that's
one of the core learnings from from this
work for me and back propagating through
my
through my life in Air Sports yeah right
that's so a lot of us are protecting our
identity and yeah that's beautiful and
and a lot of us make Bad Business
decisions and apparently bad jumping
decisions in Air Sports based on
something that's actually not dangerous
to us but dangerous too
our identity yeah I would say the thing
is is that the if you think you're
making a decision you're in fear
period so
I have made 500 choices today
I am unaware of those choices they just
happened right so I I'm choosing to talk
to you right now I'm choosing to have my
phone and or my computer in this
configuration I'm choosing where to look
I'm choosing what I'm drinking I'm
choosing what words to say and they're
all choice so for semantics I'm going to
call those choices decisions is where
you go okay I have a decision to make
and now I'm sitting here thinking about
do I go left or do I go right
do I do I take the job do I not take the
job do I buy the car do I not buy the
car so if you're in a thing where a
decision
where a choice has become a decision
where all of a sudden there's a lot of
thought put into it and you're really
putting some energy into
Matt in itself is is fear so already
you're in some fear operating in some
fear I kind of want to challenge that a
little bit as a devil's advocate
what makes it not that we could be
operating out of Desire
on the one side of the coin I can see
that we fear a negative outcome on the
other side of the coin I can see that we
desire the best of possible outcomes and
what we might even desire to not have
the thing that we fear occur and it can
like which which how do we know whether
fear or desire is actually primary there
and can it be both
it can be both but but all that I'm
saying is that fear is involved
that there's there's some place where
there's fear involved so there could be
a ton of motivations desire being one of
them or the motivation to be right or
the motivation to not be judged or
there's a thousand motivations in there
um but there's a fear there's a fear of
getting it wrong there's a fear of a
consequence if you're making a decision
instead of just having a choice that is
in front of you
and so and so that's a really important
thing is just to notice that there's
fear involved in it and when there is
fear involved in it our ability to think
becomes less clear our ability to learn
becomes
um dwindled our ability to see more
solutions right because we become more
binary in our thinking so all of that
occurs because we're in fear so once
we're in that decision making that's
what happens and it's kind of the short
fix on that that I that a lot of people
will use and that I I will share here is
that
uh you just do the next most obvious
thing
so I'll give you a story about this so
when I was investing in
I would call I called it Investing For
philanthropy
where we would
um
you know put Millions hundreds of
thousands millions of dollars into some
project there's this thing about like is
this there's this moment are you going
to do it are you going to put this money
in and I used to think that when I saw
that I used to think oh that's a
decision that I have to make and I have
to make it well
and through my time working in
philanthropy what I realized was that's
a false that's not true it's never true
what's true is you just do the next most
obvious thing
oh if I'm if I'm thinking do I put the
money in or do I not put the money that
means there's some fear what's the fear
that I have to address
okay I don't know if this person is
going to be great okay I'll do some
reference checks okay now do I still is
it just am I sending them money now or
am I still trying to make a decision oh
I'm still trying to make a decision okay
well maybe it's not what's happening oh
maybe they're not serving okay the next
most obvious step is to call some of the
people they're serving and make sure
that their product is as good or their
services as good as I thought it was oh
you know so it was just a constantly
looking anytime I thought I had to make
a decision what's the next most obvious
step what's the fear that's not being
addressed here and what's the next most
obvious step
that'll lead me to so what if one of the
next most obvious step is [__] it I'll
just jump that'll make the decision for
me or the next obvious step is I'm just
gonna go to the fridge and grab another
beer
or
yeah what makes the next most obvious
step I guess this would be a matter of
how well we've calibrated our emotions
and where they direct us how like how
much we've felt
but I'm also curious how you would
distinguish yeah that's a great obvious
choices
yeah that's that's awesome very
specifically it means that you're
staying focused on the problem
and you're not jumping in the mode
you're not speed bumping an emotional
experience
so so what that means is that it's not
like oh the next most obvious step is to
ignore or to to uh to avoid and the next
most obvious step isn't to avoid Again
by jumping over an experience I'm just
so tired of being in this not knowing
that I'm gonna [__] just do something
that's a one's level of avoidance and
the other level of avoidance is I'm
gonna go grab a beer and so what you're
doing is you're staying focused on it
and you're not speed bumping any of the
emotional experiences and how do you how
do you prevent getting into like
analysis paralysis there if the next
most obvious choice is to check the
check the charts and then go back and
check some other numbers and then go
back and check your
yeah so I've the next most obvious thing
to do
and so and if you're looping okay if you
if if you're looping then you're not
doing the next most obvious thing to do
right so looping is like checking the
charts I would say isn't doing what's
the thing that you have to do what's the
next most obviously to do and that's the
the critical piece
yeah yeah those are great those are
great nuances that you're pulling out
yeah cool so that that's like that's a
that I would say that's a short term
but there's a great really practical I'm
in a decision here's what I do I every
time and it's literally oh I think I
have to make a decision that means I'm
in fear that means there's something
that I need to investigate what is it
that I have to do next
and it's that it's that it's that
analysis of okay I see it
now that means that there's something
here what do I have to do to investigate
to unravel that and what would the
difference be between like the next most
obvious thing might be to
take actions and follow the next most
obvious actions and it might be the next
most obvious thing to do is to pause and
do a little bit of yoga or
take care of yourself sure and
sure you know what would make you not
get kind of pulled in I guess if you
were to do that and you you get
regulated to a point it'll naturally
arise on you to start taking action on
the problem again
yes yeah I mean I'm not saying that you
have to like 24 7 the problem but yeah
it's just like what's the next step in
the problem if you need to take care of
yourself in the meantime obviously
yeah and I think that the the thing that
I mean it's kind of this amazing thing
just if you this is like a simple little
experiment you can do which is super fun
so you're driving and you're like where
are we gonna eat
and that that's a dis and it's like all
of a sudden you're in the conversation
with your girlfriend fiance kids
whatever where are we gonna eat and
there's this whole thing or you're in it
with yourself
and then if you just say you know what
I'm not gonna I'm just gonna find out
where I'm gonna end up
and then all of a sudden you're at this
place you like then you have a
conversation and then boom oh right all
of a sudden we're here
oftentimes that's the way life Works
where you can literally just say oh that
I think I have to make this decision
and I can just actually kind of look and
find out and that's what used to happen
with the philanthropy is just like I
would just say oh what's the next most
obvious thing and then all of a sudden
I'm like yeah we should investor no I'm
out of here and it wasn't and that
decision never felt like it got made
right it was never like oh wow I have
made the decision I'm doing this or I'm
not doing this I just looked up and was
like I guess I didn't invest there or I
guess I did
and
and that's that's how the world works
it's like all of a sudden these big
decision points just kind of evaporate
and they just become the next most
obvious thing and so and and and it's
because you're addressing the fear
directly instead of
instead of thinking that you can figure
out the future by sitting and looking at
charts or thinking it through okay so so
we've talked a little bit about how
emotions are a big part of how we're
making decisions and that they are
generally fear driven and when we when
we feel like we're in a decision there's
some kind of fear
um another way that that relates to you
know something that I've experienced is
that any anytime that I find myself
stressed in a decision it also just
means that I haven't fully accepted the
outcomes
of all the options or of the options
that I might take yeah um which is a
different way of saying what you're
saying I think no there's what you're
saying there is like another Nuance
that's really important which is
so
what how most people think making a good
decision so most people think oh okay
here's a good decision
um it's a decision where I avoided the
consequences I made the decision that I
avoided the consequences and I got the
reaction that I wanted to get that I got
the thing that I wanted to get so a good
decision in a business or an investment
is that the investment
um went well
right but my experience as a venture
capitalist was that my best investment
was the one that I made like not so good
money in and the worst investment was
where I made the most money and and and
I think I can't tell you how many VCS
have felt that same way where they have
like this was a great investment but it
didn't make money and this was this was
like God it was a [__] show but it made
a ton of money and you're speaking to
some other like intangible return than
money that came from it
yeah or like I mean the company was
really well run and it was like they had
a good team and and for whatever reason
something or this cut or this or it did
something really cool in the world but
that market timing was off right and
whereas the other
um so saving a lot of money but yeah but
it was all fakata and 17 other ways and
it caused the biggest headaches and
took the most of my time etc etc gotta
yeah so you're referring to a decision
that based on the available information
was a good decision it just didn't work
out and other ones that yes you just
happen to invest in and if you had been
if you had your druthers you wouldn't
have done so and then it worked out
because there's some there's some
especially in the markets and with
companies and investing there's a lot of
stochasticity and then a lot of decision
making then becomes about you know
portfolio Theory
and an example of that from from like
jumping would be you could say that you
made a good decision because you
survived the jump you just did and you
could also survive a jump and say that
was I made a bunch of terrible decisions
because I don't believe that I could
have done that a hundred times
and survive that and if I had planned on
making 100 jumps then that was a failure
that's exactly right that's exactly
right yeah if I if I made the kind of
decision that I made with the company
that didn't do so well 10 times my
portfolio would be freaking amazing if I
did 10 to 10 decisions with the one that
did well 10 times I would be bankrupt
that's exactly the way to say it yeah
yeah beautifully said yeah yeah very
cool
yeah so so so but one way people think
about it when they're like I have to
make a good decision most people are
thinking is it going to get me the
result that I want is the decision I'm
going to make get the result out that I
want
and that's not how I make it that's not
how I see good decision making and it's
not
I don't think it it also doesn't lead to
the best decisions overall it doesn't
lead to the best outcomes overall either
so what I would suggest is that when
you're looking at how to make a good
decision the other way is to look at
what a good decision is is that feels
really good inside of you you're like oh
this like I could be happy with the
consequences either way because I made a
decision in a way that felt great it
felt like it was a part of my
authenticity it felt like who I am
like so when people are going do I take
the job or do I not take the job they're
thinking which one's going to make me
happy instead of oh what's the decision
that makes me feel really good right now
right it makes me feel like oh how do I
make this decision right and because
we're in fear we're thinking about it in
a binary way
and so we're not seeing all the
Alternatives and as soon as you say to
yourself okay
instead of trying to get the best
outcome or get the right outcome I'm
gonna change my focus to to how does it
feel best in me then immediately the
fear starts evaporating new options get
seen so it's not I'm going to take the
job or not take the job it becomes I'm
going to ask for this and this and this
or I'm going to make sure that my
relationship with this person is right
before I take the job or I'm going to
make sure that the resources that I need
to be great at this job are going to be
delivered for me before I take the job
and so the the change goes how do I how
do I be in this decision that feels
great right now is another way that I
think a more fruitful way to think about
how to make great decisions it's not the
outcome it's how you are in the decision
making process yeah I'm seeing a really
beautiful symmetry right now back to the
relationships how relationships reveal
Us episode where we you described that
if we're in a relationship where our
role is to make the other one happier
than we're both basically that's hell
and I'm seeing that right here it's like
if we're making decisions out of the
trying to make ourselves our future
selves happy like you can't predict yeah
yeah yeah that's great
yeah and then the the other way I the
way I think I'm making a great decision
is if I'm making it principally
and and so I think principal decisions
are super critical
and and so there's two reasons for them
one is that if you're making a decision
principally you're more likely to get
the reality that you are are wanting but
the other reason is because you make
decisions a lot quicker all of a sudden
decisions just evaporate and they just
become choices so for instance
and I can give you lots of stories about
this but I'll just give you one
principle that I work off of which is I
just don't work with [__] like I
just don't do and
and there's been huge times where
there's been like large amounts of money
that I could have made if I would have
just suffered this this [__] first
you know X period of time or something
like that
and
and it was really hard to say no to this
big pile of money and at the same time
I have that principle and I and I know
that living by these principles and I'll
revisit them every once I'll say is this
true is this still right on the
principles that I live by
but if I live by those principles then
it turns out that like my life is the
life that I want it to be and all my
choices can help me and so I don't even
think of a principle as something
if a principle doesn't help me make
decisions it's not a it's not true
principle what's another example another
example is that I put connection first
right so if I have a decision to make
over like do I accept something or not
accept something in my life or a job
offer or a client or I connect
I will not make the decision unless I
feel a sense of connection and then I
can like oh that's the connection is
first
and if I'm having a problem first thing
I do is I go and connect with the person
that's a principle that I I live by
and so what does that do in the long
term what that does is if I make enough
decisions that way it ends up that I
don't I don't have [__] around me
which is fantastic and I feel deeply
connected with the people around me
which is fantastic
and so the principles that you hold if
you hold them through all decisions
because the decisions is one event and
so you can think about your decision
like a portfolio too
yeah and it's like oh I have a portfolio
of decisions and my job is to make most
of them good decisions and if I'm living
principally I will do that
and it might be hard in those moments
but and but finding those principles and
living by them making your decisions by
them is the shortcut yeah this ties back
to what you said about feeling great
about making the decision or making the
decision that feels great in your system
now and yes I imagine if you if you make
decisions from what you think your
future feeling is going to be then
you're basically telling yourself that I
am prioritizing my imaginary fantasy
future over my present so you're going
to end up living a life where you're
present is always organized to be
sacrificed
for some future uh so beautifully seen
that's exactly right yeah yeah
beautifully seen because I've been there
that's yeah we all have right we all
have and I remember this you know I
remember
this time when like people talked about
principal decision making and I just was
like what the [__] are you talking about
you know like like what do you mean and
and it just made no sense to me it was
just I remember it was like and then
what happened was I was working with
somebody who worked exclusively on
principle decision making
and
and it was over this deal it was like
early in my Venture Capital career
excuse me I'm
it was
and he's making a decision and he
basically just went through like these
five principles you know this this this
this this this this and
and it was a board thing and he just
like said these are the principles and
he let and I saw him do it I saw him
make a great decision
really really quickly
and I saw him not lose his Center in the
in the process you know like it was you
know one of these things where you get
the board call and everybody's freaking
out because something bad's happening
and this was like a merger an
acquisition like like our big exit was
about to go away
and it was horrible and everybody's
freaking out what do we do to like and
this guy's just like yeah so here are my
principles on this and I remember one of
the principles where it was you build a
company to make the best company you
don't build a company to sell it
that's one of the principles that he
lived by so he's just like if they don't
want to buy the company we don't we
don't chase
if we chase the best case scenario we
get a lower price if we're like fine
best case scenarios they go oh [__] and
they come back
great but in the meantime we're just
going to continue to build the best
company we can build and it was just
principally decided bam
one they had like five principles and he
went through all of them this these are
my principles this is what I see works
and he just did it and he never lost
himself and it was absolutely the right
decision for the company we made a lot
more money on that company
and and that and and finally the the
when they came back to Baya it was that
same company that came back to bias and
paid a lot more money a year later and
so so it was just that it was that and
when I saw that I was like oh that's
what that's what people are talking
about when they say principal decisions
it means I am going to do something that
feels like [__] right now for as far as
my ego goes as far as my identity goes
as far as like short-term gain goes
because I I know these principles work
and so I'm going to live by these
principles and they worked yeah yeah
there's an interesting they didn't work
I don't think it would have mattered to
him at all except for maybe he would
have looked long-term oh are my
principles wrong right yeah there's an
interesting contrast there to like the I
guess if there's a principle of I'm
going to make the decision that feels
good
that might conflict sometimes with the
principles that actually draw us
through our ego you know through through
the uncomfortable feelings of you know
drawing boundaries and saying no and
leaving money on the table and you know
firing somebody that we like
as a person and all these all these
decisions that can bring us through
difficult feelings
yeah and so how like
I guess there's a there's a lot of times
our emotions might conflict with our
principles and our emotions might
conflict with our intellectual analysis
but it sounds like the difference
between the intellectual analysis and
the principles is that the principles
are something that's been sort of
Consolidated over time and you've
learned that it works
and you know it might be like I you know
what I don't lie I don't want to tell
lies because I don't want to have to
remember 30 different truths for who I'm
talking to
right you know yeah yeah yeah the
distinction here that's I think really
important to make is like there's men
like I I think about like Mandela
working and like breaking stones in the
Quarry and being in in jailed for a long
period of time that wasn't going to be
comfortable
but it felt good there's some aspect of
him that felt true to himself that felt
like he was being himself in that
process and so the good that I'm feeling
that I'm speaking to like you feel good
in the decision means that you're in
yourself you're you're empowered you're
saying yes this is who I am
not in an identification way but in a
way of like presence I can be present in
this decision making I'm not saying I'm
going to be comfortable okay I'm sure he
was not comfortable
but I'm sure that he could be himself in
that and so that's the distinction that
I'm making yeah and then being able to
welcome all your emotional states is to
say oh I can feel
I can happily Feel the fear of losing
this deal I can happily feel the anguish
of being stuck in this Quarry I can
happily feel any of these experiences
allows you to be in yourself and
maintain Who You Are
in rough times and who you are is the
principles yeah as far as like how you
want to be in the world
I want to tie this back to another thing
maybe this is even just a principle or
just a
sort of a pillar of the work which is
that we tend to invite what we fear and
so if we're acting on principles that
bring us into our fear
how to how do we
how do we follow those principles into
fearful places without inviting the
thing we fear like for example if my if
I have a principle that leads me to uh
want to approach a bunch of investors or
approach some people I'm attracted to at
a bar and I also know that that's going
to bring me into a situation that I'm
afraid of and then maybe I will stumble
over my words and then like produce some
kind of negative response to my
expectation get rejection and that I I
might be able to predict that that
rejection is going to send me into an
emotional spiral for several weeks
uh how do we how do we follow principles
into the fear without creating the
conditions that the fear invites
yeah so it's a it it's the same
principle but it works just a tweak
different than how you're describing it
so we the things that we fear we invite
through the avoidance of the things that
we fear ah so so I'll give you a story
of my I was just having this
conversation with my daughter uh last
night for dinner and she was
she has a new guy that she's dating and
she's really liking him and she speaks
to his like last girlfriend or fling or
something like that and she gets this
fear
that he's like playing her or like isn't
into her as much as she's into him or
some version of that
and so she
um
decides and very cool he decides to say
like hey this is the thing that like I
have this fear and like what what are
you up to and what's going on here and
the guy's like no I totally want you to
be my girlfriend and like I'm totally
committed and blah blah blah and so it
worked out well for her but in the
conversation as she's talking about it I
noticed she was just kind of defending
him a little bit too much and like and I
said like hey babe what what are you
doing like why are you why do you need
to defend him why do you need to like
justify that he's not gonna hurt you or
something like that what's really going
on there
and she sat with it for a minute
then she started crying and she was just
like this is my own fear this is me
being scared that I'm gonna get hurt and
I'm trying to avoid getting hurt wow
and she says she's tearing up it was so
beautiful and
and then
and so I said yeah so I want to teach
you something in this particular case it
worked out well but the reality is is
that acting on that fear made it more
likely that he was going to abandon you
right because you're more likely to come
off needy and she is broken up with a
lot of guys who are needy so she knows
that world right and so you're more
likely to come off needy which means
somebody who's self-possessed isn't
going to be attracted to you and you
also ended up pushing potentially could
have pushed him into something that he
wasn't ready for
and the other thing is that like if you
can take or leave him if you can be in
that fear yourself and you know learn to
welcome it
then you're self-possessed and that's a
harder person to leave right so all in
all those ways so
for her it's the avoidance of that
emotional experience that is create is
recreating the fear yeah and so what
living principally does is it says I'm
going to go right towards that emotional
experience I'm not going to avoid it
right and so we so I I just to give a
couple more examples of this I as a kid
was like not kid in my 20s I was really
scared of being abandoned and so I think
we've talked about this on the podcast a
couple times So to avoid the experience
of being abandoned I would get angry at
people which would make it more likely
for me to be abandoned or I would
um become a voidant which made it more
likely for me to be abandoned and so it
is really us trying not to feel the
emotion
the thing that we fear abandonment being
left
um
being rejected being a loser
failing at our business it's that
experience that we are trying to avoid
that we're inviting back in and living
principally forces us to
feel the stuff that we don't want to
feel fear feel feel the idea that oh
this company
that is not going to get bottom we're
going to lose our investment we have to
go and feel that [__] and welcome it
yeah
yeah I love the avoidance of that that
makes us run towards them and say oh
come on please please sign the deal
we'll give you a discount right and it's
also what makes us justify pre-justify
our decisions and post-justify them with
confirmation bias one of the things I
really love about the story with your
daughter is that there was this hurt
that she was afraid to feel and so the
way that she made the decision
she justified in her mind she was
justifying her partner
yes to avoid feeling that feeling and
that's that created the blind spot that
would have had her fall right into that
feeling later on
and this is just another really key
thing about human decision making is
that the confirmation bias once we make
a decision because we don't want to feel
whatever consequence of having made the
wrong decision or having
the emotional experience that we were
trying to avoid losing the money losing
the partner losing the business
then we that's the source of the fear
that ends up constructing stories that
blind us to reality
yeah and then feeling the underlying
emotions just the way through it we
don't need to construct a story anymore
if we're okay with
right follow the feelings
right and that's the other way in which
we
create our own we recreate the reality
that we assume to be true like or invite
the fear so one way is we try to avoid
the feeling in a way that immediately
brings it towards us another way is that
we see the world we prove that this is
the way the world is and that recreates
that experience for us as well yeah
right like the person who's like who
thinks
a world leader who thinks uh the world
is Cutthroat and everybody's out to get
me and they're going to get me at some
point those are the leaders who go and
start the wars who verify that
everybody's out to get them you know
they they start penalizing punishing
containing constraining oppressing
people so that they're not
destroyed and in that they create a
world where that's the that is the
actual reality and they always get
destroyed by it yeah I mean it'd be nice
if there were some examples of that on
the world stage right now but I mean
only if there was examples
only yeah maybe like two huge examples
are happening one is is currently
happening when it will happen in the
next five years is that it's just how
that works you know and so these this is
the way we do it and so if you live
principally
if you say okay this is the reality that
I want to see and this is how I want to
live so that I feel really great about
myself then you create that reality
and and to do that it forces you to feel
all these emotional experiences that you
don't want to feel and become friends
with them welcome them
you can't make that decision to say
we're not going to sell the company even
though
it was going to be a lot of money unless
you're willing to feel yeah
the oh shitness of it the fear of it
yeah which brings up another potential
prison uh principle which could be that
I want to make the decision that leads
to my deepest growth
which you know you don't necessarily
know what that is but you do know what
you're avoiding if you're if like the
more self-aware you become you notice
more yeah what it is that you're
avoiding and sometimes I I can tell that
I've I've definitely made decisions in
the past that didn't seem rational I
didn't end up getting what I wanted I
didn't end up feeling the way that I
wanted to feel and it's almost as if
there was something subconscious
something deep in me that brought me
into that place to feel the thing that I
was avoiding
and I said I couldn't tell if it was me
that knew that or if it was just
some deep biological
instinct to growth as as a coach who's
been through a lot of this stuff I see
that all the time I watch people and
they think they're doing one thing but
I'm like nope yeah I totally see how
they are like I have a client right now
who like isn't working for a short
period of time you know finish one big
project and and typically really
high-powered people when they stop
working they'll go into like this
depression
and
and it's really just exhaustion and
except for their they beat themselves up
over not doing anything so they so
becomes a depression and
and I'm watching her do all this
recovery I'm watching her do
um making all this growth with her
family I'm watching her like be with
herself and be more honest with herself
and she just is like yeah no I what am I
doing I really should go get a job and
I'm like like watching her whole doing
all the the groundwork to to make the
life that she's always wanted that she's
been avoiding
and I so I see that all the time I see
people constantly
make a series of decisions I'll know
when clients are like
gonna make a move usually like a good
month or two before because I see that
they're doing these things that they
can't understand but their their deep
wisdom is leading them right to it and
and I think it's something
so beautiful when you can actually have
faith in that when you can say I don't
understand this decision but I have
faith that something my wisdom is is
is is is guiding me here yeah that leads
to a lot less stress over the second
guessing of ourselves yeah you know
yeah and also I think the other part of
good decision making is there is an act
of surrender in it there is like an act
of surrender to decision like
you since we can't control the outcome
there is a a place where that has to be
surrendered the outcome has to be
surrendered
and and there is and learning that
surrender is unbelievably like it
creates so much freedom and so much joy
to say oh this this part of it's beyond
me this is what I can actually control
what I can actually control is how I'm
going to show up here in my
how I'm going to be in the world
yeah well
that sounds like a wrap I don't know
about you but that feels really good to
me yeah sounds good I think we have more
to talk about decision making at some
point but I think that this is a good
one to end with yeah yeah thank you Joe
yeah I loved it yeah what a pleasure
thank you thanks for bringing up this
topic yeah you got it yeah see you
everybody bye
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
on your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
[Music]